---
title: Introduction
author: Richard Chompff
date: 2024-01-01
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

# What is this?
Autostede is a tabletop roleplaying game for a GM and 2-5 players that lets you play as the pilot (called a Drover) of a semi-sentient, animalistic mechanical partner (An Autostede).
Drovers are nomads who travel from town to town dealing with problems that the towns have. Most people have Autostedes, but only drovers alter their autostedes to be capable of increased exploration and combat. The world is a dangerous place, and drovers do the hard work to keep it at bay.
# How does it work?
Players in Autostede either play as Drovers or the GM.
Drovers pilot their stedes, taking into consideration its wishes and work together to brave the dangerous wilds and help the townsfolk solve problems.
The GM portrays the world, both the townsfolk that need help and the dangers that threaten the drovers.
Together they weave a story of fearless nomads achieving incredible feats, using the rules of the game to help direct them make the story as dramatic and interesting as possible.
# A Note About Safety
The stories that originally inspired this system, such as Pokemon, Digimon, and Zoids, generally feature children who use their companions as weapons against other companions, not each other. Be aware when you sit down to play this game that the players may expect that to be the case. Alternatively, media properties such as Monster Hunter, Final Fantasy and Dungeons and Dragons often use companions as weapons against other characters.
Talk to the other players about what they expect and want out of this system. There is no wrong answer, though be aware this system does not have mechanics for character damage and death so if that is something that your players are interested in then perhaps you should play a different game, and use The Companion Kit, a free TTRPG toolkit that gives you the ability to import the rules and systems from this game into other games.
# An Introduction to the World
Nobody really knows where the Autostedes came from. Some say they flew here as one big stede and the impact of landing broke them into a million pieces. Some say if you travel north far enough you’ll find the factories where they are made still pumping them out. Folk tales tell of a time before stedes, when things called “animals” roamed the land and the cities were huge and plants were small. What do I think? I honestly don’t care. Stedes are here. They hurt us and they protect us. We ride with them and we run from them. I don’t know where they came from, but I know I’d rather have one as a friend than as an enemy. 
I got my first stede when I was 5. Young, I know, most people don’t get the chance until they’re teens, but I was with my Ma in town and saw a small quadripedal stede with 3 tails wandering in. Looked like a wreck, one of its legs was half lame and it had a big dent in its side. Without thinking I ran up to it to see if I could help. Now, I ain’t no mechanic or nothing but I did what I could, plugged in a few wires and hoses that were flopping around near what looked to be where they plugged in. I’ll never forget the feeling when that first one imprinted on me. Damn near scared me out of my boots to be honest. I heard the older kids talking about their stedes like they could talk to them, but I never really thought it would be that direct. My brain lit up like it was on fire. Suddenly there were two thought patterns in one place. Wasn’t until I screamed, ran back to my Ma and felt the sadness emanating from Toby, that’s what I ended up calling him, that I realised what was going on. I was hearing his thoughts. Not that I have to tell all y’all, I know you have stedes of your own, that everyone’s got one, but we got talking about where they came from and my mind started to wonder, where would I be without them?
That being said, there is some kind of compulsion in wild autostedes that makes them search out the closest, most powerful autostede and fight it. We still don’t understand why, and once it is tamed it seems to go away entirely, but what we do know is that if you have a powerful autostede, wild ones are coming for you. Doesn’t matter if you’re on the road or in the centre of the city, they will hunt you down and destroy everything around you. 
I don’t pretend to understand why people like you still tame, train and maintain your autostedes. I chose to live here peacefully in order to avoid the constant stress of my old life, and that was just politics, not actual life and death robots coming to hunt me every day.
But I’m glad you do what you do. I couldn’t imagine how things could work, how people could survive without drovers.
So it’s with this in mind that I ask you. Leave town. Now. I’ve fixed the joint on your autostede’s leg and it won’t hassle you anymore. Don’t worry about paying me for my time or parts. Just. Get. Out.
