---
title: Combat
layout: post
---
During combat, the players all collectively act until each of them has taken one turn. The GM then takes a turn, during which they should perform an action that alters the battlefield significantly in some way, such as calling in reinforcements or creating barriers or effects that the players must overcome.

Most of the time during combat the result of a failed action is that the enemies attack that player' autostede.

# Rows and Ranges
Instead of a full grid, autostede runs on a system of Rows and Ranges. At the beginning of combat there are four rows, and the players may place a token that represents their autostede into either of the two rows on one side of the table, forming a front row and a back row. The GM then places all of the starting enemies in either of the other two rows, forming an opposing front and back row. Throughout the battle, the GM may create additional rows on either side of these original four rows, though an autostede cannot enter a row that contains autostedes from the opposing team. 

The weapons and abilities of the autostedes reference one of three ranges, Close, Near or Far. If an enemy is in the next row, such as a front row player and a front row enemy then they are close. If there is one row between them, such as a back row player and a front row enemy, then they are near. If there are two rows between them, such as a back row player and a back row enemy, then they are far. Anything beyond two rows between two autostedes is considered Distant, and they cannot be targeted. 

Some abilities reference enemies in "a line", this means that you can choose one enemy from each row, preferably ones that are all lined up neatly.

# Player Turn
During the player turn, each player can move one row, though not into a row that contains enemies, and perform one action. 

An action is anything that requires a dice roll, which is usually, but not exclusively, an attack. You may forfeit your action to move again. If an autostede fails or succeeds with a cost in an attack then the enemy usually deals Harm back to the player, or may perform one of their other actions. If you target an enemy with an attack but due to your roll make an attack that cannot target an enemy at that range, you are free to change the target of the attack, or move (if you haven't moved yet this turn). In fact, if you succeed with an attack, you may distribute that attack's damage however you'd like, amongst any number of targets.

Using an Ability doesn't count as an action, and the player can use as many Abilities as they like whenever they want, provided they have the Charge, even during the GM’s turn.

# Loot
As the players defeat enemies, they drop pieces of scrap and charge that the players can pick up in order to replenish their resources. 
Every time a player defeats an enemy, the GM puts aside a number of dice according to the size (1 for small, 2 for Medium and 3 for Large) and rarity (+0 for Common, +1 for Uncommon, +3 for Rare and +6 for Legendary) of the enemy. At the beginning of their turn, the GM rolls all of these dice, and then the player may use those results to:

|Die Result|Usage|
|1-3|Heal one damage|
|4-5|Recover one charge|
|6|Gain a new module|

# The GM Turn
During the GM turn the GM performs up to three actions. Each one may be activating an enemy, in which case they move one range and either make an attack or use one of their other moves. Any attack hits the player’s autostede automatically, and it takes Damage equal to the enemy stede’s harm. It is best if at least one of the actions is a large change in the battlefield, such as additional enemy autostedes attacking or something altering the physical conditions of the battlefield.

You can be comfortable putting large numbers of enemies on the battlefield, since you can only use three of them per turn, the numbers aren’t going to overwhelm the players, and it’s better to give the players plenty of fodder for generating loot dice, which they can use to stay healthy.
