---
title: Modules
layout: post
---
A Module is a part of your stede that is special or significant in some way, and is what your stede uses to perform actions within the game. Modules generally don’t have a lot of flavour or theming attached, as they are designed to fit the style of the autostede, rather than the other way around. For example a claw module could just as easily be a hawk’s talons as it could be a wolf’s paw or a series of sharp spikes on a stick. 

Each module has:
- A Style, which defines an Attribute Bonus and an Attribute Malus
- A Range and Damage Rating
- An Ability

For the full list of modules, check out the parts list

# Styles
There are six styles which give different attribute bonuses and maluses:

<div class="table-wrapper" markdown="block">

|Style|Bonus|Malus|
|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|Scrap|Power|Precision|
|Bulky|Power|Handling|
|Sleek|Handling|Power|
|Primal|Handling|Precision|
|Energy|Precision|Handling|
|Refined|Precision|Power|

</div>

As a additional effect, the attribute bonus from modules installed on your autostede also increases your attributes. For each module with a bonus to an attribute, that attribute increases by one, which means you roll one extra die when using it. While the bonus increases as modules improve, they don't add more than one to the attribute rating, and the maluses don't effect your attribute ratings at all.

# Autostede Rolls
When your autostede attempts something, your GM tells you which Attribute that task falls under, and you roll that many dice onto your play sheet. In the centre of the play sheet is a map, roll your dice into that map. If any roll away from the map then you can either reroll them or just push them back on.
The segments in the map are all labelled, and the labels correspond either to the Frame or the three Modules that make up your stede, all of which are defined by the cards surrounding your play sheet. 
When you make your roll, the segments that the dice land on represent the modules that the stede wants to use. You select one of those dice, which determines the module that the stede uses to carry out the task. 
Each module has a Style, which defines one attribute bonus and one attribute malus. If the attribute that you rolled with matches that module's attribute bonus, then you get that bonus to the result of your roll, however if it matches the attribute malus then you get that malus to the result.
If the die landed on the centre section, you may describe the action however you’d like, using any module, but it counts as the style of your autostede’s Frame for the purpose of bonuses and maluses.

# Segments
The individual shapes that make up the map on the play sheet are called “Segments” and represent the bond that you share with the stede. Segments are either Dormant (blank), Synced or Damaged. 
If you roll two or more dice in segments from the same Module, then use one of those dice, you may Sync one Segment in that module. 
If, when you roll, any dice land on a Synced Segment then that die’s result gets +1. Alternatively, you get a -1 to the result of all of the dice if any dice landed on Damaged Segments.

# Damage
If your autostede takes damage, roll a number of dice equal to the damage taken onto your stede sheet, as you would while taking an action. The numbers those dice roll don’t matter, but wherever those dice land the Segments are Damaged. If multiple dice land on a single segment, or dice land on already damaged segment, then they move to the closest non-damaged segment. 
If all Segments in a Module are Damaged then that Module is considered Broken, and cannot be used, either for an action or its Ability (Mark the box on the module so that you remember this)
If all of the Segments in the centre section are damaged then you only ever roll one die.
These segments can still be fixed through other abilities, at which point those modules are no longer considered broken. 
If every segment in the map is Damaged then you have a “Critical Mass" Moment. 

# Critical Mass
Once all of your segments are damaged, choose a Module, describe one epic action using that Module, and cross it off on your Stede Sheet. That Module can never again be used, and must be replaced or changed. The epic action you describe can have any effect you choose, up to and including destroying every current enemy. 

# Abilities
Each module has an ability, which is something exceptional that the autostede is capable of, and a charge value for that ability. Whenever you'd like, you can spend that much charge and perform that ability. There are no rolls necessary, and you can use any ability you'd like at any time any number of times, provided you have enough charge.

Some abilities have a range of numbers in the format "X/X/X/X/X", these are the values that you use in reference to the level of the module. So for a 0th level module, you use the first value, and for a 4th level module, you use the 5th.

# Quantum Modules
While journeying through the wilderness you may manage to salvage working modules from wild stedes you encounter, or come across ancient, mysterious modules with unknown origins. 
When you find a new module, it is remains unidentified until you choose to identify it. 
To identify a module, first roll 1d6 to determine its rarity. If you roll a 6, then that dice “explodes” and you can roll it again. You may choose to spend any number of other unidentified modules to roll that many additional d6s to increase the chance of achieving a higher rarity. 
It takes a certain amount of 6s for a module to begin at each level.

|Level of Module|Number of 6s required|
|:-:|:-:|
|0 (Common)|0|
|1 (Uncommon)|1|
|2 (Rare)|3|
|3 (Legendary)|6|
|4 (Unique)|10|

You must then draw a playing card and roll 1d6 to determine the form and style of the module

# Installing new Modules
New modules can be inserted into empty slots on the play sheet, or can replace existing modules, so long as you have access to a mechanic, or can make a successful Fix(Tinker) roll. A success with a consequence on such a roll means that you installed the new module but broke the old one. Using a mechanic always works flawlessly, but they are only available in towns of sufficient size. 

As you install and uninstall modules, they may have different styles and thus different attribute bonuses, so don't forget to adjust your attribute ratings accordingly. Remember, regardless of the attribute bonus of the module, it only ever adds one to your attribute rating.

# Upgrading Modules
You can trade identified modules with a mechanic to upgrade one of your existing modules. The cost of an upgrade is dependent on the current level of the module;
Level 0 to Level 1 costs 2 modules
Level 1 to Level 2 costs 4 modules
Level 2 to Level 3 costs 6 modules
Level 3 to Level 4 costs 8 modules 
Each upgrade increases the Attribute Bonus, Attribute Malus and Damage of the module by 1




